README.md, before:

# \<Terminal /\>

[NO LONGER MAINTAINED] ReactBash is a configurable / extendable bash terminal component. It provides an easy way of adding a terminal to your application. The terminal has a few built in base commands, and allows a simple means of extending the understandable commands. It boasts things like autocomplete on tab, previous command navigation, and a test suite you can trust. It is easy to install and get started.

```
npm install --save react-bash
```

Try out the [DEMO](http://zackargyle.github.io/react-bash/)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zackargyle/react-bash/master/demo/screenshot.png)

### Props
prop         | description
------------ | -----------
`extensions` | An object of bash command extensions
`history`    | An array of initial history items
`structure`  | An object representing the file system
`theme`      | A string representing which `theme` to use (Terminal.Themes.LIGHT, Terminal.Themes.DARK)
`styles`     | An object overriding the theme styles passed to each section
`prefix`     | The string used to prefix commands in history: defaults to `hacker@default`

### Currently supported commands and args
command      | args/flags | description
------------ | ---------- | -----------
`help`       |            | lists all available commands
`clear`      |            | clears history
`ls`         | path       | lists all file and dirs at path or `cwd`
`cat`        | path/file  | prints out the contents of a file
`mkdir`      | path/dir   | makes a new dir at path
`cd`         | path       | change directory to relative path
`pwd`        |            | prints out the `cwd`
`echo`       | any        | prints out all args with env variables
`printenv`   |            | prints out env variables
`whoami`     |            | prints out current user's username

### Extending the command list
The `extension` prop is an easy way to extend the bash commands that can be parsed from the terminal input. In essence, each command is a state reducer returning a new terminal state. This provides a lot of flexibility. Each command has access to the `structure`, `history`, and `cwd`, and expects the object returned to be applied in `setState` of the React component. Note that each extension should keep the state immutable, otherwise the component will not update. If we were to extend the commands with and existing command like 'clear, here's how we could do it.

```js
import Terminal from 'react-bash';

export const clear = {
    exec: ({ structure, history, cwd }, command) => {
        return { structure, cwd, history: [] };
    },
};

const extensions = { clear };
<Terminal extensions={extensions} />
```

Each command is given the `state` and a parsed `command` object. The command object provides the `name`, `input`, `args`, and `flags` corresponding to the input. Some commands can use optional or required arguments. There are three types of args: `anonymous` args, `named` args (--), and `flag` args (-). To see how ReactBash parses the input.

For the input `foo some/path -baz --hello world`, ReactBash would parse the input as:
```js
{
  command = 'foo'
  input: 'foo some/path -baz --hello world',
  args: {
    0: 'some/path',
    hello: 'world',
  },
  flags: { b: true, a: true, z: true },
}
```

### History
The history prop and state arrays are lists of items that will be displayed as history items in the terminal. Essentially, anything that gets 'printed' out onto the terminal is a `history` item. The `prefix` prop is available to alter the bash user info that prepends commands in the history. If you'd like to add a welcome message to the initial state of the terminal, it's as easy as passing in a prop.

```js
const history = [{ value: 'Welcome to the terminal!' }];
<Terminal history={history}  />
```

### Structure
The structure object is a representation of the "file system" found within the terminal. It is what is used to navigate into/out of directories, display file contents, and suggesting autocompletions. Each key in the dict is either a `directory` or a `file`. If the object has a `content` field then it is assumed to be a `file`. This simplified the interface and makes it easier to get started. Here's an example of what a `structure` might look like.

```js
const structure = {
    src: {
        file1: { content: 'This is the text content for <file1> of <src>' },
        file2: { content: 'This is the text content for <file2> of <src>' },
        childDir1: {
            file: { content: 'This is the text content for <file> of <src/childDir1>' },
        },
        childDir2: {
        }
    },
    '.hiddenDir': {
    },
    '.hiddenFile': { content: 'This is a hidden file' },
    file: { content: 'This is the text content for <file> of the root directory' },
};

```

### Scripts
script         | description
-------------- | -----------
`npm start`    | run the demo on `localhost:3000`
`npm run test` | run the test suite
`npm run lint` | run the linter

### Patrons
* [Derek Stavis](https://github.com/derekstavis)

>Be the second to contribute!
>✌⊂(✰‿✰)つ✌

**Some ideas for contributions:**
* Add `grep` command that walks/searches the `structure`
* Add multiline support / text formatting for `cat`

## License
[MIT](http://isekivacenz.mit-license.org/)

Commit message:

resolved ref, but tests failing
need to update tests to deal with ref changes. moved default props out to prep for publishing

README.md, after:

# \<Terminal /\>

[FORKED] react-bash-typescript has been updated to work within a Typescript project. It is a configurable / extendable typed bash terminal component. It provides an easy way of adding a terminal to your application. The terminal has a few built in base commands, and allows a simple means of extending the understandable commands. It boasts things like autocomplete on tab, previous command navigation, and a test suite you can trust. It is easy to install and get started.

```
npm install --save react-bash-typescript
```

Try out the [DEMO](http://zackargyle.github.io/react-bash/)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zackargyle/react-bash/master/demo/screenshot.png)

### Props
prop         | description
------------ | -----------
`extensions` | An object of bash command extensions
`history`    | An array of initial history items
`structure`  | An object representing the file system
`theme`      | A string representing which `theme` to use (Terminal.Themes.LIGHT, Terminal.Themes.DARK)
`styles`     | An object overriding the theme styles passed to each section
`prefix`     | The string used to prefix commands in history: defaults to `hacker@default`

### Currently supported commands and args
command      | args/flags | description
------------ | ---------- | -----------
`help`       |            | lists all available commands
`clear`      |            | clears history
`ls`         | path       | lists all file and dirs at path or `cwd`
`cat`        | path/file  | prints out the contents of a file
`mkdir`      | path/dir   | makes a new dir at path
`cd`         | path       | change directory to relative path
`pwd`        |            | prints out the `cwd`
`echo`       | any        | prints out all args with env variables
`printenv`   |            | prints out env variables
`whoami`     |            | prints out current user's username

### Extending the command list
The `extension` prop is an easy way to extend the bash commands that can be parsed from the terminal input. In essence, each command is a state reducer returning a new terminal state. This provides a lot of flexibility. Each command has access to the `structure`, `history`, and `cwd`, and expects the object returned to be applied in `setState` of the React component. Note that each extension should keep the state immutable, otherwise the component will not update. If we were to extend the commands with and existing command like 'clear, here's how we could do it.

```js
import Terminal from 'react-bash';

export const clear = {
    exec: ({ structure, history, cwd }, command) => {
        return { structure, cwd, history: [] };
    },
};

const extensions = { clear };
<Terminal extensions={extensions} />
```

Each command is given the `state` and a parsed `command` object. The command object provides the `name`, `input`, `args`, and `flags` corresponding to the input. Some commands can use optional or required arguments. There are three types of args: `anonymous` args, `named` args (--), and `flag` args (-). To see how ReactBash parses the input.

For the input `foo some/path -baz --hello world`, ReactBash would parse the input as:
```js
{
  command = 'foo'
  input: 'foo some/path -baz --hello world',
  args: {
    0: 'some/path',
    hello: 'world',
  },
  flags: { b: true, a: true, z: true },
}
```

### History
The history prop and state arrays are lists of items that will be displayed as history items in the terminal. Essentially, anything that gets 'printed' out onto the terminal is a `history` item. The `prefix` prop is available to alter the bash user info that prepends commands in the history. If you'd like to add a welcome message to the initial state of the terminal, it's as easy as passing in a prop.

```js
const history = [{ value: 'Welcome to the terminal!' }];
<Terminal history={history}  />
```

### Structure
The structure object is a representation of the "file system" found within the terminal. It is what is used to navigate into/out of directories, display file contents, and suggesting autocompletions. Each key in the dict is either a `directory` or a `file`. If the object has a `content` field then it is assumed to be a `file`. This simplified the interface and makes it easier to get started. Here's an example of what a `structure` might look like.

```js
const structure = {
    src: {
        file1: { content: 'This is the text content for <file1> of <src>' },
        file2: { content: 'This is the text content for <file2> of <src>' },
        childDir1: {
            file: { content: 'This is the text content for <file> of <src/childDir1>' },
        },
        childDir2: {
        }
    },
    '.hiddenDir': {
    },
    '.hiddenFile': { content: 'This is a hidden file' },
    file: { content: 'This is the text content for <file> of the root directory' },
};

```

### Scripts
script         | description
-------------- | -----------
`npm start`    | run the demo on `localhost:3000`
`npm run test` | run the test suite
`npm run lint` | run the linter

### Thank You
To [Zack Argyle](https://github.com/zackargyle) for a fun, easy-to-use project to fork and update!
>✌⊂(✰‿✰)つ✌

## License
[MIT](http://isekivacenz.mit-license.org/)
